# BBRF-TIP
Boosting Broader Receptive Fields for Salient Object Detection. TIP-2022 ([Paper Link](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10006743))
# Abstract
Salient Object Detection has boomed in recent years and achieved impressive performance on regular-scale targets. However, existing methods encounter performance bottlenecks in processing objects with scale variation, especially extremely large- or small-scale objects with asymmetric segmentation requirements, since they are inefficient in obtaining more comprehensive receptive fields. With this issue in mind, this paper proposes a framework named BBRF for Boosting Broader Receptive Fields, which includes a Bilateral Extreme Stripping (BES) encoder, a Dynamic Complementary Attention Module (DCAM) and a Switch-Path Decoder (SPD) with a new boosting loss under the guidance of Loop Compensation Strategy (LCS). Specifically, we rethink the characteristics of the bilateral networks, and construct a BES encoder that separates semantics and details in an extreme way so as to get the broader receptive fields and obtain the ability to perceive extreme large- or small-scale objects. Then, the bilateral features generated by the proposed BES encoder can be dynamically filtered by the newly proposed DCAM. This module interactively provides spacial-wise and channel-wise dynamic attention weights for the semantic and detail branches of our BES encoder. Furthermore, we subsequently propose a Loop Compensation Strategy to boost the scale-specific features of multiple decision paths in SPD. These decision paths form a feature loop chain, which creates mutually compensating features under the supervision of boosting loss. Experiments on five benchmark datasets demonstrate that the proposed BBRF has a great advantage to cope with scale variation and can reduce the Mean Absolute Error over 20% compared with the state-of-the-art methods.
# Requriments
- Python 3.6
- Pytorch 1.4+
- OpenCV 4.0
- Numpy
- Apex
# Models and Results
[BBRF-SaliencyMap](https://pan.baidu.com/s/1E95WI0ofDziwbSbdM6wxYw) (Password: urjz)
